hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonewstoday.com
i'm your host dylan grabowski this
episode of the smart economy podcast is
part of the series focusing on women in
blockchain
in episode three of the women in
blockchain series i chat with jessica
levesque the executive director at the
cryptocurrency certification consortium
also known as c4 the c4 is a non-profit
organization comprised of blockchain and
cryptocurrency experts
who seek to establish standards and
accreditations
to help ensure a balance of openness and
privacy
security and usability
and trust and decentralization in the
cryptocurrency space
in this conversation jessica and i talk
about her background in education and
stumbling down the crypto rabbit hole in
where blockchain education gets it right
and improvements that can be made
the importance of doing your own
research
the community development aspects of
blockchain ecosystems
how the c4s certifications are created
and updated how the blockchain industry
has noticeably become more diverse in
the past couple years but still has room
to grow and more
just a reminder nothing said on this
podcast is a solicitation to buy or sell
any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
financial advice
and that the host or guests may hold
tokens discussed in any given episodes
with that said
i really enjoyed chatting with jessica
and i hope you enjoy the conversation
too
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we are speaking
with jessica levesque the executive
director at the cryptocurrency
certification consortium better known as
c4
how are you today jessica great thanks
for having me how are you i'm doing
awesome we got connected through discord
because you reached out to me and one of
the first things i immediately noticed
was how awesome your handle was oh
it's just utterly hopeful right how did
you come up with that yeah so actually
the utterly hopeful is part of a mental
health
crew that i run i guess we're on twitter
and a few other social sites and so i
created it during the pandemic so that
people who are at home and needed some
kind of outlet would have
other people to connect with that maybe
also have mental health issues and
wanted to be able to relate to other
people and so i just kept it through
that so i'm super passionate about
ending the stigma against mental illness
and people focusing more on their mental
health so yeah we're utterly hopeful
that's the name of our organization and
i'm a dork and i think it's funny and
funny
yeah and otters are awesome yes they are
they're so cool
so have you noticed that maybe during
this downturn in the market that maybe
you've been seeing other people reaching
out to the utterly hopeful folks well
it's not really connected to crypto so
no i haven't it's totally separate from
that but i do know that there are a lot
of people that are struggling from the
downturn i think it's always
people that are new those of us that
have been around for quite a while
aren't as phased by it but the people
that are new and it's their first bear
market it's definitely more of a
challenge because you know especially if
you invested a lot of money and then
suddenly it's gone something like that
but i do think that there's certainly a
connection between mental health
challenges and
money because if you don't have the
financial access to services and
different tools then you're going to be
struggling anyways and if you made poor
investment choices or you didn't make
more investment choices and the price
tanked then you could be in a lot of
trouble right now which honestly scares
me because
mental health is such an important thing
to focus on and financial issues related
to that are really impactful in a
negative way absolutely and i mean not
only just for new people i've been in
this space since 2017 and the drop last
may
in 2021 really impacted my mental
faculties a lot more than i thought it
would and i thought i was impervious to
that because
you know i've been here for four years
so it's not just newbies it's anyone and
i think we can encourage people to feel
proud to reach out if they need to to
ask if that's the case for help for sure
i think the the ups and downs of the
market
in some cases
mirror the ups and downs of someone's i
guess struggles with mental health or
how you're doing and this is anything
with any type of financial
piece or anything where there's a roller
coaster it's really hard if you're very
focused on something like that to then
manage your mental health because
there's instability that's impacting it
and even if you're a very stable person
if you see something like that it's hard
to get away from it which is actually
why at c4 we focus on education not
speculation because that focus on
speculating on price is what can make
things very challenging to exist in this
space i think
and the smart economy pod is protocol
agnostic but i cover neo mostly and
that's kind of one of the big things we
focus on being objective fact-based
non-sensational to provide just
information about what's happening with
the tech and really try and stay away
from the market
something that i noticed in digging into
your background is you know beyond just
crypto and now mental health you're also
a huge advocate for education
so
you have a background in education what
is it you've worked with multiple
colleges in chicago so can you just give
me a little brief background on what
your
arc was for getting into education yeah
sure so i think i always knew i wanted
to be a teacher
after i graduated from college i decided
that i wanted to go on to grad school
and i got a master's in english and then
my goal was to teach at the college
level and so i started teaching college
but it was english communication studies
very different than what i do now
and i love teaching it's so much fun it
really is it's just the best time i
always say learning can be fun if you
have the right attitude the right
teacher it can be a good time it doesn't
have to be a lecture hall with 500
people falling asleep so that was
something i always wanted to do i loved
it and then i moved into administration
as well and as an associate dean at city
colleges and from there at the end of my
experience within that i decided i
wanted to shift gears a little bit and
move into crypto
one of my good friends is already in
crypto and she
i don't know brought me in and i fell
down the rabbit hole and i haven't been
out since so i switched from higher ed
to working in crypto and
it's still all about the education
when i learned what crypto can do to
help people and to change the world that
we live in i just became fascinated by
it so obviously i don't have a tech
background which i think is a good thing
for people who also don't but want to
get into the space to notice there are a
lot of people who don't have that really
technical experience but are still able
to
function learn and be a part of
something that i think is this is so
cheesy but i think it's beautiful really
what we're doing to change the world
i agree it seems like we both got bit by
the crypto bug in 2017 yep in my former
life i was an urban planner like i went
to college for that i went to grad
school for that field i was in the field
for six years before i stumbled on
crypto and i was a little bit
disillusioned with my previous career
path but crypto kind of like brought
back that passion and learning is
something that
i didn't realize until like college
graduate school was something i really
did enjoy having in my life just
learning about something new and being
able to go to the coffee shop and dig
into a white paper was
fascinating it kind of was what excited
me about being a grad student
so
when i stumbled on crypto in 2017 it was
like oh my gosh this is the way forward
so what was it specifically for you
that kind of like
got your gears going and how did you
parlay that
into landing a position at empowered law
and then what were you doing when you
were at empowered law which was kind of
your first foray into crypto sure so
i was working in adult education which
is specifically helping people get their
geds and learn english we have ell
students and from there the person who
introduced me to crypto was pamela
morgan who is someone who i just
really respect and look up to she's
extremely knowledgeable when she fell
down the
bitcoin and crypto rabbit hole we were
already friends and then once she
started to teach me more about it i kind
of couldn't get away from it one of the
things that i love about learning and
what you were just talking about before
dylan is that idea of learning something
new every day and i think it's really
humbling when you're confused and as an
educator when you teach the same subject
material or you're already an expert in
it
it's easy to forget just how challenging
it is to learn something new and within
the cryptocurrency space and web 3 i
feel like i learned something new every
day which i love and i feel like there's
always something new to help others
learn but so pamela was really
instrumental in
introducing me to cryptocurrency in a
way that was digestible and was
interesting to me because she didn't
come at me with the technical side she
came to me and said i love what i'm
doing and here's what i'm doing and so
this is how i want to i think we can
change the world and so i wanted to work
with her through that and so we did a
lot
of most of our was focused on education
and in particular her specialty she's a
lawyer and empowered law is all about
teaching people how to safely use crypto
and to plan for what no one wants to
happen which is basically what happens
to your crypto assets if slash one you
die and i think that's something that
many many people are missing
to
have either to talk about because no one
wants to talk about that because it's
the worst
but we all need to do it and if we don't
do it appropriately your family or
friends or whoever you wanted to leave
your crypto to could
never get it and that i think is a
devastating thing to think about yeah
and there's also the whole added level
in estate planning for how you share
your keys yeah with your lawyer or you
know maybe the safety deposit box where
they're gonna be in
so
i agree it's a huge deal but there's
also this inherent kind of like internal
strife with not your keys not your coins
and like am i gonna share this with my
lawyer so that's an interesting kind of
realm i think that's very important but
also a lot of people might have to
grapple with when
it's coming to their morals or ethics
with cryptocurrency yeah we're actually
well we can talk about this a little bit
later but i want to talk about how the
not your keys not your coins in that
struggle between
what
the custodial versus non-custodial
aspect i think it's fascinating and
there's there's a lot to go in
into on that but we can keep with the
intro and then we'll jump into that
later if that's okay cool another kind
of topic i want to pull on and this
might be broad but it's a question i
still want to ask what role do you think
education plays in doubling the amount
of crypto users today oh god it's huge i
think it's probably the single most
important thing for adoption because if
we don't
approach
the education
in a way that
easily includes people that aren't
technical then i don't think it will
ever be adopted and that includes anyone
from any
region of the world and there's
different types of people that are
extremely intelligent they have all of
this knowledge about
they might be a financial advisor they
have all this knowledge about how to
invest in the market but they don't
understand how crypto works and because
of that there's this fear that they
don't need it they don't understand it
and then there are people who don't have
much knowledge and they don't have
access to traditional banking anyways
and they might be in a different place
where they need a different type of
education but i think the bottom line is
breaking it into these digestible chunks
and relating it to the things that we
already connect to in life so one of my
favorite examples is like
the reason that any of us can go into a
grocery store and
pick out you know a bag of cheetos which
by the way i wanted cheetos last night
and my partner had eaten all of them so
i like really got cheetos on the brain
today shame i know it's horrible but so
if you're at a grocery store you go in
you want to buy some cheetos pick them
out you go to the
checkout and put it on the little
conveyor belt goes through it's not
stressful or anxiety-inducing for most
people because you've seen this your
whole life when you were a kid you went
to the grocery store with your parent or
guardian you went through you watched
them pull out the money or the credit
card you saw the interaction so many
times that it became
just something that you see something
that you do so then maybe the first time
you made this transaction you were with
a parent and they handed you the money
and you you gradually built up to it and
then we have crypto where we say okay
send a transaction it's like well i've
never seen this before i don't know my
parents haven't done it my friends
haven't done it it's this whole scary
world and i don't think it needs to be
but you do need to be taught it needs to
kind of become normalized see other
people do it experience it have trusted
individuals organizations that you can
believe in when they show you how to do
it and part of that is avoiding scams
part of that is
just finding those good resources and
most importantly do your own research
don't trust me don't trust dylan don't
trust anyone verify and make sure that
you're getting the same information from
multiple places to ensure that it is
accurate and you're being safe so this
is kind of uh a wicked problem because i
myself have made every mistake you can
make in the crypto space i've been
scammed i've been rugged i've lost
crypto
i've messed up my ledger seed i've done
everything wrong you can and this is
somebody who's been in the space day in
and day out
so
i want to ask kind of twofold but we'll
start with the negative
where is education going wrong when it
comes to helping people learn how to use
these networks and processes i think
that a lot of it is just
basic
low-level education i'm not saying that
disparagingly i really mean just that
basic how do you get a wallet how do you
know how to trust a wallet what is it
used for and explaining things like when
we say a transaction what does that look
like and i think it's easier in some
ways now because many years ago the
wallet interfaces weren't as similar as
they are now to traditional banking so
there's an easier jump i think now but
still we need to understand the
terminology
and exactly where to go how to do it and
so
this is something i referred to a little
bit ago
i think that there's kind of been a
failure to do this in the crypto space
there's so much focus on price or
there's a super technical side of things
and there's less basic how do we use
crypto and so c4 has actually started a
new committee and we haven't named it
yet but i've been calling it key
management but that's not we're going to
keep it but there's a number of people
already who joined this committee and
our goal is to
create
educational materials that make it
easier
for people who are just getting into
crypto to understand how to actually use
it so our materials right now are much
more theoretical
it's like a high
high level overview we always say it's
like in order to become a certified
bitcoin professional you don't need to
be able to fix your car as a mechanic
you just need to be able to drive it
it's more like a driver's license
but what we're starting to do is create
this committee and these educational
materials to back up to say well how do
you even figure out what a license is
how do you even learn how to open the
car i know that sounds silly but if you
have no idea how a key works you've
never opened a car before even that is
foreign so really backing up and
starting at the beginning to explain how
do you make a transaction how do you
even get crypto why is there volatility
because that's something we experienced
in order to buy our exams you have to
pay crypto it's like the first test can
you pay for this in crypto and there are
people who
are struggling with that and so we've
come to the conclusion that this is kind
of a failure on our end and something we
can
solve so we're working with this
committee to create more educational
material that lowers the playing field
because i wish i'd had that when i
started i totally screwed stuff up oh my
god if i could go back in time i would
do a lot of things differently like i
think often we hear people who've been
around for a while they don't talk about
what you just said which is like i've
been scammed i've been robbed like at
our house we have a phone that is
totally defunct doesn't work i can't get
rid of it but there's no way it even
matters there's an old wallet on there
from when we got our first little amount
of um btc
and i don't even know how much it is but
i like can't get rid of the phone just
in case because we didn't do what you
should do which is back up your seeds we
didn't do that we didn't know we were
doing and so i really wish someone had
sat me down and been like here's exactly
what you need to do and also like it's
okay if you screw up just screw up with
a small amount
and small amount is obviously different
to different people but like use a test
network really figure it out before you
go out and buy you know five thousand
dollars on coinbase and then send it to
who knows where right that was one of
the things that i really got hooked on
with crypto i've i'm also internet
native my entire life i've been using
the internet like aol 1.0 from back in
the day
and you know just like hacking as a
middle schooler you know using uh
super nintendo and nintendo kind of like
types of games and figuring out how to
port those to my computer so i've always
kind of been a tinkerer like i even
learned a basic html when i was in
middle school so this is kind of where i
came from and when crypto and blockchain
came into my life it felt very much like
that and i could like tinker around and
figure it out but that was a very
personal experience for me and i'm not
sure that like everybody is willing to
kind of go through that
so on the converse side of the question
where has education gotten it right when
we're teaching people about
cryptocurrency and blockchain yeah i
think one of the things you brought up
earlier than not your keys not your
coins that andreas coined i love phrases
like that that stick around i think
there's two sides of that
that's true they're not your keys they
aren't your coins and i think that we
need to do a better job educating people
on how to as stephanie murphy has put it
she's from the let's talk bitcoin
podcast or i guess not speaking of
bitcoin but she's explained it as the
stairway to self-sovereignty so you
start at the bottom and you're working
your way up to being your own custodian
and when i say be your own custodian i
mean holding the private keys which give
you access to the funds versus having it
in an account that somebody else is
controlling those keys too but she
points out that
if you start at the very top that's not
the way to go if you just get dropped in
on the top there's a lot of information
you've missed so if you start at the
lowest stair and work your way up to
having your own keys for your coins it's
probably a better way to go about it but
there's this issue in the space where
you should start right at the top and i
think people like andreas have done a
really good job
explaining
why it matters and how to get in from a
basic level before jumping into the more
technical he obviously does technical as
well but
one of the reasons so after empowered
law i worked for andreas and one of the
things that i really enjoyed was the way
that he explains things and i think a
really accessible way and he talks a lot
about why it matters never speculates on
the price and really focuses on adoption
and
i think that people like him are doing
an awesome job i think like anita posh i
don't know if you're familiar with her
she's got i actually have a book behind
me called learn bitcoin she's really
breaking it down at a simple level that
i think is amazing and so there are
people out there that are doing a good
job educating
i would i mean this is a cheap pop but i
would say we are at c4 i think our
certified bitcoin professional prep book
and course are awesome obviously there's
some bias there but i do think it's
pretty great we get good reviews on it
but there are other people out there as
well like jamison laps so there are a
lot of good educational resources it's
finding them
and
finding exactly what you want and
avoiding the like scammy stuff on
youtube it's like oh you can make a
million dollars tomorrow it's like um
okay dreams but no
hey that's super cool that you've worked
with andreas he was instrumental in
helping me begin my bitcoin journey
and also an individual i share with
people to this day the content is just
so great and jamison lop has also
actually really helped me in my own
journey as well
in various different ways as i've
progressed so it's interesting to hear
that
where we're getting it right is this
incremental steps basically and and like
we make it possible for people to buy
their first bitcoin and then they can
figure out how to send it to their
ledger and how to store it securely but
there's also the folly of doing too much
too quick and maybe skipping a step
which is really interesting so before we
go
into c4 i just want to pull your brain
real quick
on what are some blockchain technologies
that you're particularly interested in
today and maybe what use cases really
excite you oh that's a good question i'm
very interested in
well i love bitcoin i love ethereum i
think cosmos is fascinating one of our
board members joshua mcdougall has a
really cool
blockchain based it's on cosmos ibc and
he is building this game called strucks
i highly suggest checking out it's
really cool but to see what people are
doing on chain and
i think it's fascinating and one of my
favorite parts of his project and others
is the transparency so like for struck
you can go on discord and join the
his chat and then there's a channel
what's happening and he explains he and
everyone else explain what they're doing
how they're doing it you can ask
questions they actually want feedback
they want people to jump in and start
playing this not yet finalized game and
give feedback and like help develop the
characters and the graphics and i think
that that is just so cool because it's
something you don't see from sony sony's
not like hey what should the next i
don't know if sony does halo but what
should the next halo game look like or
there there's not this community
development aspect and i think that that
is incredible so what josh is doing at
struxx is really cool i'm fascinated
what's happening right now with the
ethereum merge and
it's
impossible to stay away from it we
actually just did a live stream for c4
on this and we couldn't even get through
everything i don't know how many
sessions it's going to be but there's so
much to it so i'm fascinated by anything
that appears to be something that's
simple but then once you get into it it
blooms and grows and there's so much
more to learn
and i just think that anything that
creates this community and is welcoming
people in there's also a this isn't a
protocol but there is an organization
called surge and they're very much so
working to get more women into the web
free space which i think is extremely
important and they are doing
educational
what they call passports it's an nft
that then gives you access to additional
resources at a discount so we donated
some discounted things and like
consensus has and a bunch of others and
so there's a lot going on that can make
the space better safer more educational
and luckily for all of us geeks it seems
to never be ending so it's like every
day there's something fun and new that
like nerdy to geek out on which is kind
of my favorite thing
have you done a user walkthrough of
structs yet with josh and his team not
recently but i did a while ago um like
right at the beginning i did and
actually i think for anyone who's
interested in it there's this article
that he wrote about why he picked cosmos
blockchain versus another blockchain he
goes through like i don't know 10 or 15
other options that he was considering
and to read the
reason that he went from you know one to
the next and what was sort of the pros
and cons of the different ones is
absolutely fascinating i highly
recommend it yeah i'll have to check
that out have you done that have you
played it recently yeah i did it not
recently i did a an intro walkthrough
with them and i kind of felt bad because
it's just like them recording a guy
clicking around talking out loud not
knowing what the heck's going on but i'm
sure that's helpful if you can't figure
it out they need to do different things
and so it's cool that they're asking
regular people to do this and it's not
this big company that's got these huge
user groups and they're just doing it
because they want to figure out what'll
sell best it's really how can we make
sure people will enjoy this game
and that's also the team and what josh
is doing is also something that i just
support in general like jumping from the
safe thing you're doing
and going full on into something you're
passionate about that's kind of unknown
i felt very much like that when i was
leaving urban planning and going into
crypto journalism
so i also think that we should support
folks who make the jump oh totally when
i left higher ed my mom was like what
are you doing with your life your what
fake money i would hear my mom it's
gonna be okay i can handle it but it
seemed very scary and i still think she
doesn't quite understand what i'm doing
i think a lot of people don't but as it
gains more adoption a lot of the people
that thought i was just you know making
poor choices are now suddenly starting
to reach out and be like hey
so how does bitcoin work i'm like ha
now you're starting to see it it's
starting to happen which is one of those
things that like as people start to
shift
i feel so happy and then when the bear
market comes in and they're like oh yeah
that's right it does suck i'm like no
this is not what the focus is the focus
shouldn't be on the price yeah my dad
did not get what i was doing and it just
boiled down to it at the end he's like
well if you don't ask me for money then
i guess what you're doing is fine
i love it
yeah so four and a half years five years
later still haven't so figured out a way
to make it happen dad must be proud
danielle who was one of the first guests
for the women in blockchain series her
mom says she works for bitcoin
that's funny yeah so
how did c4 come to be then yeah so in
michael perklin and joshua mcdougall the
co-founders of c4 who are also current
board members were discussing how
difficult it was to find people who
actually understood how bitcoin worked
and how could they hire people and know
that they really understood because it's
easy to say you get bitcoin and to throw
out a couple things but to really prove
you understand it is something different
altogether so they decided to come up
with c4 cryptocurrency certification
consortium and
develop the certified bitcoin
professional exam and so michael and
vitalik actually wrote the first cbp
exam
and from there
it was around for a few years and then
in 2019 i had been working full-time
with andreas and i switched to work
part-time 50 with andreas 50 with c4 and
so i came on as the executive director
and
obviously we've talked about how i love
education and bringing somebody on with
an educational background but also just
like
everyone else that was involved as a
volunteer so to have somebody be able to
spend actual dedicated time has made a
big difference and we've created
educational materials and we're not just
about the cbp anymore we also have the
certified ethereum professional
and
i'm really really excited because our
cryptocurrency security standard the
ccss has been around for a while it's
being used by people all over the world
to evaluate internally if they have safe
and secure systems in place and it's
been a long time coming but in july
we're actually releasing our exam the
auditor exam and the final standard for
this version one it has been a really
long road because it's been around for
literally years and we're finally at a
point now where we can release this and
of course the an auditor's exam is very
different than like the certified
bitcoin professional or ethereum
professional exam so we've been very
lucky to be able to grow our team and
i've shifted from 50 50 to 100
of my time with c4 which is super fun
because then we can really focus on
getting these projects out and andreas
remains a board member at c4 along with
pamela who i talked about earlier so
they're still involved heavily and then
we've got a team of people now working
and shout out to them erica miss and
lisa and adrian are incredible and all
the work that we're doing at c4 would
not be possible without them or without
all the committee members so really
we're a small team we run lean but then
we've got amazing volunteers to help us
pick up the slack on some of these so
we're pretty fortunate to have others
who care as much as we do about
education and certification in space and
i want to talk a little bit more about
c4 but this is a women in blockchain
focus series and there are a lot of
women that are working with c4 so it's
really cool to kind of see this
diversity
taking effect at your level with your
organization but we'll get into that a
little bit later i do want to just kind
of briefly talk about the differences
about the the cbp and the cep other than
the fact that they're just bitcoin and
ethereum so maybe just give us a little
bit of an overview of what those two
certifications are
and i'd actually be really interested to
hear what were some of the nuances and
differences that surprised you guys when
you were creating these certifications
between the two different most popular
blockchain networks those are really
good questions
okay the difference between them
obviously aside from just bitcoin and
ethereum being different networks the
bitcoin exam i would say is much more of
a beginner exam there's a lot more on
the history of money and how we got to
where we are where digital
money is something that's possible it's
a more basic exam
i should say basic it's a more simple
exam in that bitcoin is more simple and
i'm not saying that in a negative way
bitcoin does one thing really really
well
and i think it's going to keep getting
better with lightning network so
there are less changes to it it exists
sort of as it is in an easier way than
ethereum which is constantly being
changed and updated
so it's more simple but i say that in a
positive way i think it's a great way to
test your knowledge to see if you
understand it and it's so cool like to
take a test and be like you know what i
do get this
i really do there's proof i understand
it proof of knowledge through a test and
then the ethereum exam is more
challenging for sure we're working on a
prep book for that currently and
actually we're almost done with the
first draft of it and then we'll move
into revisions and whatnot but honestly
it is in co-writing the
bitcoin professional exam prep book
versus this one ethereum is so much more
complicated there are so many different
moving pieces to it and it's continuing
to happen obviously with the merge and
moving from proof of work to proof of
stake and then like i wrote a bunch i
wrote some in the chapters on
transactions and then um the london
eip1559 fork happened and i showed up at
the ethereum committee meeting the next
day and they started talking about it
and i was like
oh my god like how did i not know that
this is i didn't even notice that it was
happening right at the same time total
like arrowhead move and then had to
scrap all of the
you know that part but so the way that
ethereum shifts and changes definitely
impacts the ability to write the
educational materials and to keep up
with it but it is a more challenging
exam but i also think that the material
in it is extremely important and it's
really validating to be able to pass it
and once we get this prep material out
which i'm hoping is by the end of the
summer it'll make the
curve to become a cep easier because the
knowledge that you need will be there
and it's important to our prep books
definitely get you prepared to take the
exam and to pass it but it's not just
about passing an exam it's about really
understanding the material and
that's the next step of why we're
starting this additional committee
because we want to focus more on using
it and not the higher level aspects of
it
and ethereum is you know move fast break
stuff and reiterate
so how do you
integrate that into planning for
updating the cep as you move forward
right so we have a committee the
committee designs what is in the exam
and i think that's really important it's
not just me sitting here saying oh yeah
people should care this about ethereum
blah blah it's a group of people that
are all in the space that collectively
get together every single week they're
super dedicated and they go through
what's in our study guide what are our
topics the domains the topics and we go
literally go through the exam and do
updates on the exam questions we also
have something in the works that we've
yet to roll out but i'm hoping by the
fall it's called crowd queue and it is
going to allow people that are
not within the committee but have become
ceps so anyone who's a cp or cvp to make
suggestions for questions they think
should be on the exam that they didn't
see when they took it but basically it's
just like the grunt work of sitting down
looking through what where we're at
what's happened having those discussions
we have an amazing committee chair
cheyenne skindari he is a solidity dev
he's the cto at ether capital and he has
really been extremely important in
getting this to move out and so we all
just get together and it's really like
okay what about this question what do
you think and going through it and
i
have seen other committees before and i
would say that at c4 the committees we
have it all comes down to how involved
they are and dedicated and spending
their time and saying like oh i learned
this let's make sure that we talk about
it next meeting like messaging about it
on telegram it's just it's really cool
so there's not a simple process
basically you just have to go through
everything cross check make updates make
sure that the questions make sense
and that
everything that is happening in ethereum
at the moment is included in it but also
anything that is no longer relevant
isn't in it so of course the merge from
proof of work proof of stake is going to
take in
not an overhaul but there are going to
be many many aspects that change because
of it which is fine like we love
ethereum so we're happy to do the work
to keep up with it and
we're fine with doing that because the
end result of all this is what matters
is innovation
change development so but yeah
definitely a process my brother-in-law
is in the real estate field and
he
sends me messages all the time of these
new
certification courses that are popping
up for becoming a certified crypto
expert
so
obviously if you take a quick look at
what's going on under the hood at c4 you
see a lot of expertise and knowledge
but how do you kind of
combat this sort of imposter syndrome of
other certification
entities that don't necessarily bring
the same sort of
ethos or ethic that you guys bring to
the processes that you have so i was
talking to someone recently who is
interested in becoming a cryptocurrency
security standard auditor a ccssa
and he told me that when he was looking
into originally becoming certified he
didn't even know he's an auditor but he
didn't know we had this standard yet i i
believe that that wasn't where how he
was introduced to us but he went online
and did a bunch of research and he
specifically said that comparing our
site just our website what we have on
twitter our videos and who our board
members and committee members are he
knew right away that we were the real
deal that this was that it's legit and i
do think that the people that spend
their time volunteering for c4 the board
and
all the committee members are what make
us
so much i don't want to say better that
might sound egotistical but like i do i
think that
i think we're the best because we care
it's decentralized to a degree and that
it's not just one person on their throne
deciding what other people should know
and understand about something that's
meant to be community driven and we're
the oldest we've been around since 2014
which in crypto that's a pretty long
time um and we're still going strong and
in fact we're growing so i would say for
those people who aren't sure like i said
before do your own research
but really don't just believe me check
out our site check out others see i
think you'll quickly discover that
people who are getting certified through
us
are
those that are the cream of the crop and
what are examples of people who are
looking for certifications like are we
talking
regular enthusiasts like myself are we
talking like auditors for the irs are we
talking lawyers who are the types of
clients that want to get their cbp cep
and soon to be cc ssa so i think anyone
who is interested in crypto and wants to
be able to prove to themself or to
others that they understand this for me
i think there there's this great feeling
and any time you are able to show that
proof of knowledge whether it's a
formalized certificate or if it's even
quizzing yourself or reading something
you know reading the white paper a few
years after you first read it and
realizing you actually understand
everything in it versus the first time
when it was a foreign language um so i
think anything that gives you that
satisfaction and that confidence
is important and real quick you said
before about imposter syndrome i think
everyone in this space has impostor
syndrome from time to time so having
that proof that you really do get it i
think it's as important for us as
individuals as it is to have to show it
externally but i think also the second
piece aside from just anyone who wants
to prove that knowledge it's super
beneficial to people that are lawyers
accountants that are doing anything
where they need to begin to understand
how crypto works for their job or you're
just fascinated by it and you want other
people
to understand about so you want to bring
it into your industry and so it is a
professional certification it's also i
think reasonably priced for those who
are interested and taking it just so
that they have that you know kind of
like yeah go me a confidence factor
which is how i felt when i took it this
is so dorky but i was like yes i
actually get it i was so nervous in 2019
when i took it that i was gonna fail
because i hadn't taken it yet we've just
done we were about to start our
blockchain training conference 2019 and
i needed to take it before because we
were announcing i was the executive
director i was like oh my god if i fail
this is going to be so embarrassing
because then i'm going to have to tell
michael perklin the chairman of the
board that i didn't pass this test
i passed but the the studying for it was
it was nerve-racking but it was also
really rewarding and i i did feel that
excitement that i really do finally
understand something that i
think isn't easy to get at first yeah
that's really cool i have a million more
questions i would love to ask about this
but i'm cognizant of both of our time
and i also really want to delve into
this broader demographic subject of
women in blockchain
let's just start with a general question
what do you think of this concept or
this perception of the subject of women
in blockchain well there are women in
blockchain um
i think it's important that it's
becoming more diverse in many different
ways i do think there are more women in
blockchain than in traditional pack it
seems like it's moving in that direction
there's been a significant change in my
opinion since when i first started to
now like even at east denver this year
versus two years ago there were way way
more women
and it's nice it's really nice not being
the only
woman or female identifying person in a
in a space and i also think there's like
this weird idea that and this is it's
not even weird it's just been going on
forever that women are catty or they're
competitive against other women and i
want to call bs on that at least in this
space i have yet to meet someone who i
think was like evil cutting and just
wanted to like get ahead of the other
women like every woman that i know in
the space is super
into helping other women and like
lifting them up and educating and
working together and just helping each
other figure this out and there is that
fear of being an impostor and asking
questions particularly in a
male-dominated space and coming off as
stupid and so people in general i think
tend to not ask questions that they
think
will make them look dumb but there are a
number of women out there who are
willing to just say like i don't get
this or can you explain this to me and
then
they're showing that they are still
extremely intelligent there's just some
piece that they have a question on and i
think seeing that and modeling that
is making it easier for other people to
enter the space and to be able to ask
those questions and women in particular
and like you mentioned earlier our team
is mostly females and
i love our team i think that they're
fantastic and i don't think they're
fantastic because they're female i think
that you can be fantastic however you
identify i do
think that our team is extremely special
in that we all really do care about each
other and it's what i said before in
terms of mental health if you're not
mentally healthy then you really i don't
think are able to do as much as you
could so to support each other in a kind
and supportive way and that's not just
women and i think it comes all the way
from the top michael perklin
my dad was ill a couple years ago and i
really wanted to get our cbp
course out and michael told me he's like
stop
you're done like go be with your dad
this is like and so just working with
people that
put others first and not just the work i
think makes a huge difference but there
are so many remarkable women in
blockchain i talked about pamela morgan
before who i really admire anita posh i
mentioned her as well i think she does
great work um janine romer she is on our
cbp committee she's a privacy
investigative journalist she's
fascinating and really intelligent and
if you want to learn about how to be
safer and more private you should
definitely check her out you guys she
wears costumes
to events so nobody knows who she is and
i just think she's fantastic this is
something that has kind of been
popping up in these conversations and
i'm wondering if maybe there's
an evolution for the ability for
women to have more equal footing in the
industry simply because it's just so new
and we don't have this good ol boy
network that like
insurance or housing might have do you
feel like because blockchain is only
12 13 years old that maybe this is
something that's allowing us to kind of
circumvent these traditional kind of
differentiations between
women in the workplace
i think somewhat some places to some
degree i don't think it's as neat and
simple as that i would like it to be
there are a number of different discord
channels that i have joined in the past
where there is definitely still that
good old boy yo bro
language where they say a lot of things
that honestly are extremely offensive
and i think inappropriate and they go
unchecked because there isn't
that hr that's saying like no you can't
say this so i want us to be further down
the road of having this being more
accepting than it is i do think that it
it's not terrible there are definitely
safe spaces i do think that as a
community we could do a better job to be
honest but i do think that there are
also a lot of people within it that are
advocates for women or for minorities
and want this to become as inclusive of
a space as possible and i will say that
if you are trying to join and you don't
know where to go and it is intimidating
being a woman and knowing how to
navigate this reach out to other women
in the space contact them because there
are a lot of us that want to see more
women and want to
use the skills that you have to better
this space and
there is access out there and i think it
has improved just look for those people
and if you see something where people
are saying something that you don't
agree with say something because if
behavior goes unchecked then it's not
going to get any better absolutely and
kind of wrapping up final question
what is the role of mentorship
in increasing diversity in the
blockchain industry i think it's huge i
think we all have a responsibility to
once you get to the point where you
really understand or maybe you don't
think you really understand but you have
that knowledge at least a little bit
under your belt to be welcoming and to
say hey if you've got questions or if
you want to talk about this i'm here
that's how i got into the space that
pamela morgan had been my mentor and
welcomed me and explained all i mean i
had so many dumb questions and she has
an amazing book crypto asset inheritance
planning and in it she gives an example
of something stupid someone did and i
can't remember we changed the name to
like rebecca that was me
100 me that did the really dumb thing
but having someone say like it's okay
you're not you know a stupid idiot you
did do something that wasn't brilliant
but and to walk you through that and so
there are a lot of women there's more
women in the space that you can reach
out to i'm happy i mean i'm on twitter
happy to connect with people welcome
people in and um yeah i guess take that
leap of faith jump in and see where you
can go because like we were saying dylan
neither of us thought this is where we
would end up and we both love what we do
and love being and working in this space
even if i stopped working in it you
can't get rid of me i love it
so like yeah join us
so how does somebody who wants to reach
out to jessica levesque or to the c4
what's the best way for them to reach
out to you and to learn about c4 yeah so
our um general email info at
cryptoconsortium.org you can use a
contact form on our page to message us
as well i'm on twitter at jesslevac
j-e-s-l-e-v-e-q
and we're also at learn more c4 that's
our twitter handle we're on facebook or
on everything so message us we're happy
to help when we do respond to messages
that people send us asking for help and
and i probably spend more time than i
should talking to individuals if they
have questions or want help because i'm
a geek and just love talking about it
and you know learning from them as well
well jessica thank you so much for
coming to join the smart economy podcast
we have uh mutual friends and we have
we've been adjacent on our social
circles so
it's surprising that i hadn't learned
more about you and sephora until
recently but i'm really happy that i did
and uh really psyched that you were able
to come onto the pod and share your
knowledge and expertise it was very much
appreciated yeah likewise it is funny
it's a big world but small circle so
it's nice to meet you and thank you so
much i appreciate being on and talking
about women in blockchain and education
and how we can all do better to make
this space
safer and
i guess bring in more new bitcoin and
ether ethereum and crypto users well
here's to doubling the amount of users
and i look forward to running into you
in an in real life event at some point
in the future absolutely thank you so
much dylan cheers
well
what did you think of that conversation
it was awesome to learn about the origin
story of c4 and how the consortia is
establishing an industry standard for
professional certifications
jessica also offered a humble reminder
that folks who have been in the
blockchain and cryptocurrency space for
a long time
have a lot to offer in simplifying the
onboarding process of new users
and that we should all be welcoming
and that if anyone is seeking advice or
a mentor that all they have to do is
reach out and ask
with that i want to thank you so much
for taking the time to listen to the
smart economy podcast
if you liked what you heard and want to
support the show
please keep neonews today in mind when
voting for your neo council
representative as part of neo's
governance process
we appreciate you and look forward to
catching you next time